[Music]
sit
wait the fido team are experimenting
with how well dogs can operate
technology
[Music]
okay all right
there you go good boy good job the thing
that we're testing here is
can you understand the correlation
between something he's doing here
and something that's happening over
there so we kind of started this as a
fun little project to see can a dog
drive a robot
all right
clearly they can
[Music]
i'm sorry this is hilarious as he's just
putting his foot on there he's learned
that if he just holds
it down it keeps the robot going
[Music]
he just doesn't do it he's just having a
great time
okay you ready to do a little training
by training them to be tech savvy
they're hoping to open a route to better
communication between dog
and owner good girl that's it yes
good what if that dog could actually
call emergency services
could call 9-1-1 with your gps location
to let someone know
you're having a seizure and you need
medical help go get help
[Music]
yes very good
they're pinning their hopes on wearable
technologies
these have signaling systems operated by
the dogs themselves
so what can dogs naturally do as puppies
they can tug on things
they can touch things with their noses
they can bite things
and so we based our sensors on those
abilities
so we've taken natural behaviors and
we've turned them into something that's
useful to humans
this is a vest that was made
specifically for laser
because he has giant ears so it has a
sensor on it called a capacitive sensor
and this works just like uh the cell
phone does
uh whenever you touch it with something
that has water in it like your finger
or a dog's nose it activates this little
sensor here
so this vest is programmed to
have a speaker speak a phrase so this
would be
if i was unconscious he would go and
find the nearest person
and then speak this phrase and then have
the person come back to help me
go get help laser go get help there get
help buddy
come on buddy good job bud good job you
are the best boy
you are the best boy helping your mama
[Music]
ultimately the vests will allow owners
to offer choices
or express opinions
so this is called a discrimination vest
because it has two sensors on it
this could represent two different
sounds two different phrases that we
want the dog to speak
and it allows the dog to select the
appropriate phrase for whatever the
situation is that the dog is trying to
trying to help in get it
do you want to drink some water or wash
your face beautiful
get it
[Music]
i am here you are okay come hug me
good job buddy none of this would work
without the dog's amazing brain
yeah let's work on shaping that left one
more it seems to be easier
well we have been thrilled with
our experiments with wearable technology
because
they learned it much faster than we
expected get it
yes the longest it took for any of the
dogs to learn any of the sensors
was 27 minutes
[Music]
you're not gonna have a cat at airport
sniffing out drugs or a horse telling
you that you're about to have a seizure
but dogs are able to do this in a way
that just vastly supersedes any other
animal and i think that's what makes
them special